<a name="5.4" />
# 5.4 工业标准的基准测试

The industry and the academic community continuously strive to provide generic
benchmarks that emulate many common programmatic problems for Java. This is,
of course, is of interest to JVM vendors and hardware vendors (to make sure that the
JVM itself performs well and also for marketing purposes). However, the standardized
benchmarks often provide some insights on tuning the JVM for a specific problem.
It is recommended to have a look at some of the things that the industry tries
to benchmark in order to understand how Java can be applied to different
problem domains.



Naturally, standard benchmarks for anything and everything exists. Many software
stacks are subject to performance measurement standardization, with organizations
releasing benchmarks for everything from application servers down to network
libraries. Finding and using industry-standard benchmarks is a relevant exercise
for the modern Java developer.

>This section is written from a somewhat JVM centric perspective. We
are JVM developers and it has been in our interest to make sure that the
JVM performs as well as possible on many configurations. So, we have
chosen to highlight many standard benchmarks that JVM vendors tend
to use. However, a lot of the effort we have spent optimizing the JVM
has had very real impact on all kinds of Java applications. This is exactly
the point that this chapter has tried to make so far—optimizing for good
benchmarks that accurately represent real-world applications leads to
real-world application performance.
>
>Some of the benchmarks we mention, such as SPECjAppServer also work
well as generic benchmarks for larger software stacks.