# 4.5 陷阱与伪优化

As in previous chapters, we will finish up with a discussion of obvious 
caveats. This section discusses things to be aware of when working with threads
and synchronization in Java.

<a name="4.5.1" />
## 4.5.1 问题方法：`Thread.stop` `Thread.resume` `Thread.suspend`

The single most dangerous part of the Java thread API, are the methods in the java.
lang.Threadclass called stop, resume, and suspend. They were included in Java 
1.0, but immediately found unsafe and deprecated. This however, was a bit too late, 
and, even today, they are widely used both in legacy code and new applications, 
despite the deprecation warnings. We are sad to report that we've come across them 
in commercial code that was developed as late as 2008.

The stopmethod (meant to halt the execution of a thread) is unsafe. This is because 
stopping the execution of a thread that is modifying global data would possibly 
leave the global data in an inconsistent, broken state. A thread that receives a stop 
signal will unlock all of the locks that it was holding, thus making the data under 
modification by these locks briefly visible to the rest of the world, which violates 
the Java sandbox model.

Stopping threads should instead be handled by wait/ notifyor (volatile) variables, 
properly synchronized when this needs to be the case.

What about suspension? Suspending a thread is inherently deadlock prone. That is, 
if a thread is holding a lock and then is suspended, no other thread can access the 
resource protected by the lock until the suspended thread is resumed. If the thread 
responsible for the resumecall, waking up the suspended thread, tries to acquire that 
lock, a deadlock will occur. Thus, Thread.resume and Thread.suspendare deemed 
too dangerous to leave to the user and were deprecated as well.

Consequently, never use Thread.stop, Thread.resumeor Thread.suspendin any 
program and be aware of their issues when working with legacy code

<a name="4.5.2" />
## 4.5.2 双检查锁

Lack of understanding of the underlying memory model and CPU architecture, can 
cause trouble in the highest levels of platform-independent Java as well. Consider 
the following thread safe code that returns a singleton object, instantiated once only 
upon demand:

    public class GadgetHolder {
        private Gadget theGadget;
        public synchronized Gadget getGadget() {
            if (this.theGadget == null) {
                this.theGadget = new Gadget();
            }
            return this.theGadget;
        }
    }

The previous example works fine for multiple threads, as the method is synchronized, 
using the GadgetHolderinstance itself as the monitor. However, when the Gadget
constructor has run once, further synchronization might seem unnecessary and 
expensive. Therefore, one might be tempted to optimize the method as：

    public Gadget getGadget() {
        if (this.theGadget == null) {
            synchronized(this) {
                if (this.theGadget == null) {
                    this.theGadget = new Gadget();
                }
            }
        }
        return this.theGadget;
    }

The previous optimization might seem like a clever trick. If the object exists, which 
will be the usual case, we can return it immediately without synchronization. 
The singleton instantiation is still synchronized, including the original null check, 
retaining thread safety.

The problem here is that we have created a common anti-pattern known as double 
checked locking. Now, one thread can start initializing the Gadgetfield upon 
completing the inner null check in the synchronization. This thread might start 
allocating and writing the object to the Gadgetfield, which may well be a non-atomic 
process, containing several writes to memory without guaranteed ordering. If this 
happens in the middle of a context switch, another thread can come in, see the partially 
written object in the field and thus fail the first null check. Then the partially allocated 
object may be returned. The same thing can happen not just with objects, but with 
other field types as well. For example, longson a 32-bit platform often need to 
be initialized by two 32-bit writes to memory. A 32-bit int, on the other hand 
(just one memory write on initialization) would slip past the trap.

The problem may, though only in the new version of the Java Memory Model, be 
gotten around by declaring the theGadgetfield volatile, but this incurs overhead 
anyway. Possibly less overhead than the original synchronization, but still overhead. 
For clarity, and because underlying memory model implementations may not be 
correct, double checked locking should be avoided! There are several good web 
pages explaining why double checked locking should be considered an anti-pattern 
in several languages, not just Java.

>The danger with problems like this is that on strong memory models 
they rarely break down. Intel IA-64 deployment is a typical real-world 
scenario where Java applications that previously have been running 
flawlessly start malfunctioning. Intel IA-64 has a notoriously weak 
memory model. It is all too easy to suspect a bug in the JVM instead of 
in the Java program if it runs fine on x86 but breaks on IA-64.

For static singletons, initialization can be performed with initialize on demand, 
providing the same semantics and avoiding double checked locking.

    public class GadgetMaker {
        public static Gadget theGadget = new Gadget();
    }

Java guarantees that the class initialization is atomic, and as the GadgetMakerclass 
has no other contents, theGadgetwill always be atomically assigned when the class 
is first referenced. This works both in the old and the new memory model.

In conclusion, there are plenty of caveats when programming parallel Java, but most 
of them can be avoided by understanding the Java Memory Model. Furthermore, 
even if you don't care about the underlying hardware, not understanding the Java 
Memory Model can still be a sure way of shooting yourself in the foot.