<a name="6.2" />
# 6.2 概述

JRockit Mission Control的4.0版本中包含以下组件：

* JRockit Management Control: 通常作为监控JVM和应用程序的控制台使用。Management Control支持自定义图形，触发规则（用户可以自定义触发条件）等特性。
•  JRockit Flight Recorder: Normally referred to as the Flight Recorder or JFR.
A low overhead, always on, recorder that creates a profile of what JRockit
has been up to lately. The recording can be dumped from the JRockit Mission
Control GUI and the contents analyzed offline. JRockit Flight Recorder is the
main profiling tool in the suite and supersedes the old
(prior to R27.x/3.x) JRockit Runtime Analyzer (JRA).
•  The JRockit Memory Leak Detector: Memleak for short. A powerful, online,
heap analyzer that visualizes memory usage trends, relationships between
instances of different classes on the heap, and more. Memleak can quickly
detect quite slow memory leaks that only become problematic over time. It
accomplishes this by doing trend analysis on the live set for each type in
the system.

Mission Control consists of two major parts—a set of APIs, agents and protocols
built into the JRockit JVM and the JRockit Mission Control client. The different tools
rely on different sets of APIs, but they all initiate communication with the JRockit
JVM using JMX.

A full discussion on JMX is beyond the scope of this book, but we'll briefly discuss
the basic concepts. The JMX standard is a three-layered architecture. It consists of:

•  The Instrumentation Level: This is where applications running in the JVM
expose resources for manageability through Managed Beans (MBeans). An
MBean is a type of Java Bean that is defined by its attributes, its operations,
and the notifications it can emit.
•  The Agent Level: The agent is the component managing the MBeans.
The most important agent-level component is the MBean server, which is a
container where MBeans are registered and managed.
•  The Remote Management Level: This level provides protocol
adapters that enable communication with the MBean server from
outside the JVM process.

The following figure shows how the different architectural levels of JMX apply
in a typical JRockit deployment:








[1]:    ../images/6-1.jpg