<a name="6" />
# 6 JRockit Mission Control

JRockit, as a Java runtime, is required to constantly monitor the running Java
application. As has been explained in previous chapters, JRockit must, among
other things, be able to find out in which methods the Java application is spending
the most time executing code. JRockit is also responsible for keeping track of the
memory usage and memory allocation behavior of the application—it would be
fairly upsetting if JRockit forgot a few objects, or if memory was not reclaimed
when objects were no longer referenced.



The wealth of data that JRockit already collects is, of course, a very good source of
information when profiling your Java program or when doing diagnostics.

In this, the second part of the book, the JRockit tools suite is presented. The
following chapters introduce four of the tools that are included in the JRockit
distribution—the JRockit Mission Control Console, the JRockit Runtime Analyzer
(which was superseded by the JRockit Flight Recorder in R28), the JRockit Memory
Leak Detector, and JRCMD.

The first three tools are included in the JRockit Mission Control tools suite. The last
one, JRCMD, is a command-line tool that ships as part of the JRockit JDK. A common
denominator for the tools is their ability to interact with an already running JVM.
There is no need to pre-configure the JVM or the application to be able to later attach
the tools. Also, the tools add virtually no overhead, making them suitable for use in
live production environments.

In this chapter you will learn:

* How to start JRockit Mission Control, both as a standalone application and
inside the Eclipse IDE
* How to configure JRockit JVM instances so that they can be managed by
JRockit Mission Control from remote locations
* How to make JRockit Mission Control automatically discover remotely
running JRockit instances
*  How to configure the management agent that is part of the JRockit JVM
*  How to use JRockit Mission Control and the JRockit Management Agent in
a secure environment
*  How to troubleshoot connections between JRockit Mission Control
and JRockit
*  Various ways to get more debug information from JRockit Mission Control
*  About the Experimental Update Site for JRockit Mission Control and how
to extend JRockit Mission Control with plug-ins from the Experimental
Update Site



While not necessary for the bigger picture, parts of this chapter assume various
degrees of familiarity with Eclipse IDE. For more information about Eclipse,
see the Eclipse homepage at  http://www.eclipse.org .